[Music]
president Trump ran is a champion of
working-class Americans got their votes
for sure now he's trying to keep their
support as president he signed a to part
by American hi American executive order
it tightens requirements for the US
government to purchase american-made
goods and it clamps down on companies
that want to replace American workers
with imported foreign labor the order is
popular a new poll by ABC in The
Washington Post found 73% of adults
support these efforts Mike Rowe is the
former host of Dirty Jobs CEO of the
micro works foundation and ardent
advocate for blue-collar jobs and he
joins the site Mike thanks coming on 7
o'clock 9 o'clock 8 o'clock whatever
works for you man and you run the first
one every night that we did that apart
I'll be with you I'll be with you at 3
in the morning if it comes to it when I
just eat me I want you to come with me
to Boca and we can have an umbrella
drink so are you are you surprised that
this is basically the most popular thing
the president's done no I'm not
surprised but I'm nervous
yeah why two reasons first of all I'm
not really sure I understand it to be
honest I mean I'm not a lawyer and it's
an executive order and it's full of a
lot of fine print and I secondly and
more importantly it feels like it might
be a shortcut and as my pop used to say
you know shortcuts lead to long delays I
don't know if it is or if it isn't
if the executive order makes things more
fair if it does something to clamp down
on currency manipulation and a whole lot
of other things I also don't really
understand it feels like happen in the
global economy the disadvantage is our
country that I'm all for it yes like if
it if it's one of these things that is
going to ultimately bring about some
unintended consequences I get nervous
look I I'm nervous about the minimum
wage because I think when we raise it to
hurry up to get to an end point it's
like that whack-a-mole game something
else pops up somewhere else and it's
it's like rent control and yeah I want
an environment where where the companies
that are most responsible for
firing are dramatically encouraged by
the market to keep the business here and
if we get ahead of ourselves and make it
by Fiat or some kind of mandate I just
figured that that moles gonna pop up out
of another hole and we're gonna have to
whack it that's for sure and people will
certainly find a way to get around it
they always do so if you if you could if
you could write an executive word if you
could do one thing to bring back
American jobs where would you start well
I think again from a business standpoint
I would write something that made it
crystal clear that my best upside for
profit is to stay here yes I don't I
don't know exactly what that would be
but I would just try and set the table
differently then jump ahead and say look
here's how I want the story to end so
let's just write this down and make an
end that way I just don't I just don't
think we can do that but look I mean I
might also suggest that the country take
a little more inward look at itself and
try and figure out why it is look once
upon a time in another life I had a deal
with the with a blue jean company you
know and part of what I wanted to do was
give the consumer a really clear choice
between jeans that were made in America
and jeans that were made overseas and
they were identical these jeans and I
mean I can show you the research one day
if you're into it but it was remarkable
how the price difference was everything
until those two jeans the American made
and the overseas were the identical same
price there was absolutely no note no
push no incentive for the 'quran were to
buy American so it's not it's not just
the worker and it's not just the boss
it's us no that's that's totally right
and though a nice segue it turns out
people will pay an awful lot for a pair
of jeans Nordstrom got he's charging
four hundred and twenty-five bucks for a
pair of distressed jeans with mud
attached what you've you've written that
this is an insult to work or part of the
war on work what do you mean by that
well the last time I was on your show we
talked about the monopoly thing right
yes we talked about the fact that the
wheelbarrow in the iron had
replaced by a rubber ducky and an ax
penguin and and you said look ki keep an
eye peeled for other examples of this
sort of social war on work and this
morning I woke up and on my Facebook
wall somebody's like Mike what do you
have to say about this and the truth is
there's not too much to say but we
finally got to the point we're not only
not only will people pay 425 dollars for
a pair of jeans but they'll pay for
polyurethane fake mud they're put on the
jeans it's like
jeans for people who don't have dirty
jobs but want you to think they have a
dirty job so so my beef with Nordstrom's
isn't that they don't value icons of
work they clearly do my beef is that
they don't value authenticity and the
once again as a country what do we what
the hell are we doing man we're
distressed jeans or one thing but these
look like you crawled through a sewer
and I know I've crawled through sewers
this is what the jeans look like and
they're $425 I can tell you the same
pair for 15 bucks and still make a prop
my wife would throw mine out for free by
the way we did the math on this if
you're making the federal minimum wage
of seven and a quarter you have to work
for two and a half weeks before taxes to
buy to buy one pair of the workingman
jeans in order to look like a working
man right good it's just listen man this
is a world completely defined right now
by fake everything right it's fake news
we don't trust anything that we hear and
part of the problem is because they're
screwing with monopoly and they're
asking us to buy a pair of pants that
look like they were hung up and shot
with a shotgun and pounded on a rock
down by the river doesn't what are we
doing with synthetic Chinese mud
attached Micro thank you great to see at
this time all right